README.md, before:

# VIPV Data Crowdsourcing Server

Server for a community-sourced photovoltaic data collection project.

## Installation for development

1. Install Python dependencies from `requirements.txt` and `requirements-dev.txt`:
    ```bash
    python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    python -m pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
    ```
    Other Python versions may work too.
2. Rename `secrets/template_secrets.toml` to `secrets/secrets.toml` and modify as needed.
3. Run the server for debugging:
    ```bash
    python -m flask --app flaskr run --host=0.0.0.0 --debug
    ```

## Docker development
- Build and deploy the server:
    ```bash
    docker-compose up --build
    ```

## Deployment
In the development environment:
1. Set a tag
	`TAG=0.0.1`
3. Build image (from Linux / WSL)
	From project root (where Dockerfile is)
	`docker build -t echedeyls/vipv-acquisition-server:$TAG .`
4. Push to DockerHub repository
	`docker push echedeyls/vipv-acquisition-server:$TAG`

In the production environment:
0. Set a tag
    `TAG=0.0.1`
1. Pull the image
    `docker pull echedeyls/vipv-acquisition-server:$TAG`
2. Clone the `docker-compose.yml` file from the repository:
    `wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/isi-ies-group/VIPV-Data-Crowdsourcing-Server/refs/heads/dockerization/docker-compose.yml`
3. Modify the `docker-compose.yml` file:
    - Change the `build: .` key to `image: echedeyls/vipv-acquisition-server:$TAG` to set the image to the one you just pulled. You can do this with the following command:
    `sed -i "s/build: .*/image: echedeyls\/vipv-acquisition-server:$TAG/" docker-compose.yml`
    - Change the environment variables to the ones you want to use.
4. Run the server
    `sudo docker compose -f docker-compose.yml up -d`

## Docker common commands
- List all containers
    `docker ps -a`
- Stop all containers
    `docker stop $(docker ps -a -q)`
- Remove all containers
    `docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)`

Commit message:

Squashed commit of the following:
commit acbf5d2944e5085049fd5313b6c93f2d7ea31d96
Author: echedey-ls <80125792+echedey-ls@users.noreply.github.com>
Date:   Fri Jan 3 11:50:49 2025 +0000

    Update main.css

commit 8c82ea86e687e0c98eb8221d94e8b84e19a45984
Author: echedey-ls <80125792+echedey-ls@users.noreply.github.com>
Date:   Fri Jan 3 11:45:21 2025 +0000

    Update README.md

commit b10a8e6b130c2b5cb389a7f631586c885474e23d
Author: echedey-ls <80125792+echedey-ls@users.noreply.github.com>
Date:   Fri Jan 3 11:45:18 2025 +0000

    Fix JWT_SECRET_KEY name in env_config.py

commit ac5c47986d8042892ccaedee23c25edd7c476595
Author: echedey-ls <80125792+echedey-ls@users.noreply.github.com>
Date:   Fri Jan 3 11:42:15 2025 +0000

    readability of module names

commit 57b2c532a430236adc13b21fba9ea8781ddc849a
Author: echedey-ls <80125792+echedey-ls@users.noreply.github.com>
Date:   Fri Jan 3 11:42:00 2025 +0000

    change config env variables

commit 62eb202c7f5bca103e5cdc620c376ffbf65b7bbc
Author: echedey-ls <80125792+echedey-ls@users.noreply.github.com>
Date:   Fri Jan 3 11:39:55 2025 +0000

    Update .dockerignore

commit 1ec5f38db045ee520c11d90ff6ef34d93a4c9f34
Author: echedey-ls <80125792+echedey-ls@users.noreply.github.com>
Date:   Fri Jan 3 11:39:49 2025 +0000

    rm secrets as the way to store them

README.md, after:

# VIPV Data Crowdsourcing Server

Server for a community-sourced photovoltaic data collection project.

## Installation for development

1. Install Python dependencies from `requirements.txt` and `requirements-dev.txt`:
    ```bash
    python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    python -m pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
    ```
    Other Python versions may work too.
2. For development, you may not need to set environment variables, but keep in mind they are heavily used in the Docker configuration for local testing and deployment.
3. Run the server for debugging:
    ```bash
    python -m flask --app flaskr run --host=0.0.0.0 --debug
    ```

## Docker development
- Build and deploy the server:
    `docker compose up --build`

## Deployment
In the development environment:
1. Set a tag
	`TAG=0.0.1`
3. Build image (from Linux / WSL)
	From project root (where Dockerfile is)
	`docker build -t echedeyls/vipv-acquisition-server:$TAG .`
4. Push to DockerHub repository
	`docker push echedeyls/vipv-acquisition-server:$TAG`

In the production environment:
0. Set a tag
    `TAG=0.0.1`
1. Pull the image
    `docker pull echedeyls/vipv-acquisition-server:$TAG`
2. Clone the `docker-compose.yml` file from the repository:
    `wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/isi-ies-group/VIPV-Data-Crowdsourcing-Server/refs/heads/dockerization/docker-compose.yml`
3. Modify the `docker-compose.yml` file:
    - Change the `build: .` key to `image: echedeyls/vipv-acquisition-server:$TAG` to set the image to the one you just pulled. You can do this with the following command:
    `sed -i "s/build: .*/image: echedeyls\/vipv-acquisition-server:$TAG/" docker-compose.yml`
    - Change the environment variables to the ones you want to use.
4. Run the server
    `sudo docker compose -f docker-compose.yml up -d`

## Docker common commands
- List all containers
    `docker ps -a`
- Stop all containers
    `docker stop $(docker ps -a -q)`
- Remove all containers
    `docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)`
